---
layout: post 
title: "My First Note" 
date: 2024-12-22
---

- [[PotterToPotter]]
- [[Japanzsch Keynote]]
- [[catalogue]]
- [[Japanese Field Division]]


I studied pottery for a semester in Arita, Japan where I quickly specialised in wheel thrown porcelain.The daily routine and intense craft practice nurtured a rich intellectual activity. Along throwing pots, an extensive body of notes was written, sometime further included, literally or not, in the pots. Along the mere technical formation, I navigated through different axes of reflexion; I found in the history of technics and obsolete uses the origin of the settled shape and typology of pots I learned to recognise; I studied pottery as a social discipline, with its contrasted, proud or hidden practices, from hobbyists to forced labour; I pondered and experimented on the function of decoration, both symbolic and functional.
Finally, I developed an heteroclite body of functional yet conceptually loaded ware, with a personal formal vocabulary of foot, rim, handles and decorations. All of this backing up a potential ceramic practice to be brought back home for the future. To conclude the semester, an exhibition was organised where I displayed my pots on the shelves of the school library, as many books and ideas, transitionary or proto object, to read. The majority of the production ended offered to people and places, a small portions brought back and offered to friends and family; and I keep the few pots left for personal use.



I studied pottery for a semester in Arita, Japan where I quickly specialised in wheel thrown porcelain. Along the mere technical formation, the daily routine of craft nurtured ideas and writings on; the mythological figure of the potter and pottery as contrasted social practices ranging from hobbyism to forced labour; the material origin of specific shapes and typologies of pots, and the many functions of decoration and decorative strategies; the emerging critic of japonism as a constructed fantasy of the racial and ideological homogeneity of the japanese people. This made for the development of a variegated body of functional yet conceptually loaded ware, with a personal formal lexicon of foot, rim, handle, decoration. Two haunting questions remains, of what and what not to bring back home ? and of how to be a potter who doesn't sell commodities ? To conclude the semester an exhibition was organised where I chose to display my pots on the shelves of the school library, as many books and ideas, transitionary and proto objects to read. Most pieces stayed there, offered to places and people. A few brought back for friends and family. The remaining pots I kept. 


I studied pottery for a semester in Arita, Japan where I quickly specialised in wheel thrown porcelain. Along the mere technical formation, the daily routine of craft nurtured many ideas and writings on; the figure of the potter; the origins of specific shapes; the many decorative strategies. Eventually I developed a variegated body of functional yet conceptually loaded ware, with a personal formal vocabulary of foot, rim, handles, decorations. One question remains, of how to be a potter who doesnt sell commodities. To conclude the semester an exhibition was organised where I chose to display my pots on the shelves of the school library, as many books and ideas, transitionary and proto objects to read. Most pieces stayed there, offered to people and places. A few brought back for friends and family. The remaining pots I kept. i





https://www.are.na/nathan-rch/and-die-hwrjcvzly2o


---
I studied for a semester in the pottery town of Arita, Japan. Visiting museums and factories, browsing libraries and eating out, a dictum quickly came out; `pots, potters and pottery` laying out a primitive distinction in a system of understanding I\'92d later try to erect for myself of what is at stake when throwing for say a simple bowl. Pots are they\'92re own thing, populating stories like tables, and potters can be at time honoured craftsmen or mocked amateur, mythological figures or exploited labourer. So where am I ? Sitting at the wheel, day and night staring at the revolution is not insignificant. In close dialogue with this highly restricting technic, experimenting with the potential beauty of features, and uses of decoration, specific detail of foot, rim, handles, and motifs emerged, for what became generations of a porous and loosely coherent set of functional yet conceptually loaded ware meeting most of my basic vessel needs. \
\
All of this backing up a potential ceramic practice to be brought back home for the future. \
\
To conclude the semester, an exhibition was organised where I displayed my pots on the shelves of the school library, as many books and ideas, transitionary or proto object, to read. The majority of the production ended offered to people and places, a small portions brought back and offered to friends and family; and I keep the few pots left for personal use. \
\